NESMA功能点估计方法
===

The indicative function point analysis method is performed as follows:

- Determine all data functions (ILF and EIF)
- Calculate the number of function points as follows:
    - functional size (fp) = 35 x number of ILFs + 15 x number of EIFs

So the functional size is based solely on the logical files (ILFs and EIFs).

The indicative function point analysis method is based on the assumption that there will be about three EIs (to add, change, and delete information in the ILF), two EOs, and one EQ on average for every ILF, and about one EO and one EQ for every EIF.

---

**The definition of an ILF is:**

An internal logical file is a logical group of permanent data seen from the perspective of the user that meets each of the following criteria:

- It is used by the application to be counted
- It is maintained by the application to be counted

The aforementioned entities meet the listed criteria: they are both used and maintained by the information system to be counted. However, the phrase, "from the perspective of the user" is crucial. The guideline states the following on this subject:

"... a group of data that an experienced user considers as a significant and useful unit or object. An equivalent to this kind of logical group of data is an object type in data modeling."

For users, the four different types of taxes are also four different things. Taxes and the accompanying regulations are indeed mutually substantively totally different. The designer of the above model has wanted to connect to the different taxes and opted to accommodate four types of payments in four separate tables; these are largely similar in structure. Logically, however, they all concern one object type PAYMENT, of which one of the data element types could be: TaxType. For the valuation of the logical file the additional data element type will be counted and no additional record types are distinguished.

In a situation like this it is recommended to adjust the functional design in order to avoid discrepancy between the count and the design.
